README.md, before:

# CodePipeline MCP Java Spring OAuth2

A professional Java Spring Boot microservice with OAuth2 authentication and WebSocket real-time capabilities following MCP (Model Context Protocol) design principles.

[![Java CI](https://github.com/markbsigler/CodePipeline-MCP-JavaSpring-OAuth2/actions/workflows/maven.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/markbsigler/CodePipeline-MCP-JavaSpring-OAuth2/actions/workflows/maven.yml)
[![CodeQL](https://github.com/markbsigler/CodePipeline-MCP-JavaSpring-OAuth2/actions/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/markbsigler/CodePipeline-MCP-JavaSpring-OAuth2/actions/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

## 🚀 Recent Updates

- Upgraded to **Testcontainers 1.19.7** for better Java 17 compatibility
- Improved test reliability with **@DataJpaTest** and proper transaction management
- Enhanced test isolation with **Testcontainers PostgreSQL**
- Added comprehensive integration tests for the Message repository
- Fixed validation exception handling in message creation
- Added proper test cleanup and transaction management
- Improved test performance with container reuse
- Added detailed logging for test execution

## 🏗️ System Architecture

### High-Level Architecture

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Client] -->|HTTPS| B[API Gateway / Load Balancer]
    B --> C[Spring Boot Application]
    C --> D[PostgreSQL]
    C --> E[Keycloak]
    C --> F[Redis Cache]
    
    G[WebSocket Client] -->|WSS| C
    C -->|WebSocket Events| G
    
    H[Monitoring] -->|Metrics| C
    C -->|Logs| I[ELK Stack]
```

### Authentication Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant C as Client
    participant A as Application
    participant K as Keycloak
    
    C->>K: 1. Request Access Token (Client Credentials/Password)
    K-->>C: 2. JWT Token
    C->>A: 3. API Request with JWT
    A->>K: 4. Validate Token
    K-->>A: 5. Token Info
    A-->>C: 6. Response
```

### WebSocket Message Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant C as WebSocket Client
    participant S as Spring App
    participant B as Message Broker
    
    C->>S: 1. Connect (STOMP)
    S-->>C: 2. CONNECTED
    C->>S: 3. SUBSCRIBE /topic/messages
    C->>S: 4. SEND /app/chat
    S->>B: 5. Process Message
    B-->>S: 6. Broadcast
    S-->>C: 7. MESSAGE (to all subscribers)
```

## 🚀 Features

### Core Features

- **Spring Boot 3.2** with Java 17
  - Modern Java features and performance improvements
  - Auto-configuration and standalone deployment

- **Security**
  - **OAuth2 Resource Server** with JWT validation
  - **Keycloak** integration for identity management
  - **Role-based access control** (RBAC)
  - **CSRF protection**
  - **CORS** configuration

- **Real-time Communication**
  - **WebSocket** support with STOMP protocol
  - **Message broadcasting** and direct messaging
  - **User presence** tracking
  - **Event-driven** architecture

- **Data Layer**
  - **PostgreSQL** with **Spring Data JPA**
  - **Flyway** for database migrations
  - **QueryDSL** for type-safe queries
  - **Auditing** (createdAt, updatedAt, etc.)

- **API**
  - **RESTful** endpoints
  - **OpenAPI 3.0** documentation with **Swagger UI**
  - **HATEOAS** for discoverable APIs
  - **Pagination** and **filtering**
  - **Validation** and **error handling**

- **DevOps**
  - **Docker** and **Docker Compose** support
  - **Maven** build system
  - **Git** version control
  - **CI/CD** ready

- **Monitoring**
  - **Spring Boot Actuator**
  - **Health checks**
  - **Metrics** with Prometheus
  - **Distributed tracing**

- **Testing**
  - **JUnit 5**
  - **TestContainers** for integration testing
  - **MockMVC** for controller testing
  - **Test coverage** reports

## 🛠️ Prerequisites

- **Java Development Kit (JDK) 17** or later
  - [Download Eclipse Temurin JDK 17](https://adoptium.net/)
  - Verify: `java -version`
  - Required for Java 17 language features and modules

- **Maven 3.9+** or **Gradle 8+**
  - [Install Maven](https://maven.apache.org/install.html)
  - Verify: `mvn -v`

- **Docker and Docker Compose**
  - [Install Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)
  - Verify: `docker --version` and `docker-compose --version`

- **Database**
  - PostgreSQL 14+ (included in Docker Compose)
  - Or install [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) locally

- **IDE** (Recommended)
  - [IntelliJ IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/)
  - [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) with Java extensions
  - [Eclipse](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/)

- **API Testing Tools**
  - [Postman](https://www.postman.com/)
  - [cURL](https://curl.se/)
  - [httpie](https://httpie.io/)

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Local Development Setup

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/markbsigler/CodePipeline-MCP-JavaSpring-OAuth2.git
   cd CodePipeline-MCP-JavaSpring-OAuth2
   ```
   
   Or using SSH:
   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:markbsigler/CodePipeline-MCP-JavaSpring-OAuth2.git
   cd CodePipeline-MCP-JavaSpring-OAuth2
   ```

2. **Start the infrastructure**
   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```
   This will start:
   - PostgreSQL database
   - Keycloak OAuth2 server
   - PgAdmin (optional, for database management)

3. **Configure Keycloak**
   - Access Keycloak Admin Console: http://localhost:8081/
   - Login with `admin/admin`
   - Import the realm configuration from `keycloak/realm-export.json`

4. **Run the application**
   ```bash
   # Using Maven wrapper
   ./mvnw spring-boot:run -Dspring-boot.run.profiles=dev
   
   # Or build and run the JAR
   ./mvnw clean package
   java -jar target/codepipeline-mcp-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
   ```

5. **Access the application**
   - **API Base URL**: http://localhost:8080/api
   - **Swagger UI**: http://localhost:8080/api/swagger-ui.html
   - **H2 Console**: http://localhost:8080/api/h2-console
     - JDBC URL: `jdbc:h2:mem:testdb`
     - Username: `sa`
     - Password: (leave empty)

6. **Test Users**
   - **Admin User**
     - Username: `admin`
     - Password: `admin`
     - Roles: `ROLE_ADMIN`, `ROLE_USER`
   - **Regular User**
     - Username: `user`
     - Password: `password`
     - Roles: `ROLE_USER`

### 🧪 Testing the Application

#### Running Tests

1. **Run all tests**
   ```bash
   ./mvnw clean test
   ```

2. **Run integration tests with Testcontainers**
   ```bash
   # Make sure Docker is running
   docker --version
   
   # Run integration tests
   ./mvnw test -Dtest=*IT
   ```

3. **Run a specific test class**
   ```bash
   ./mvnw test -Dtest=MessageRepositoryIT
   ```

4. **Run a specific test method**
   ```bash
   ./mvnw test -Dtest=MessageRepositoryIT#shouldSaveMessage
   ```

5. **Generate test coverage report**
   ```bash
   ./mvnw clean verify
   # Report will be available at: target/site/jacoco/index.html
   ```

#### Test Configuration

- Tests use **Testcontainers** with **PostgreSQL 14**
- Test data is automatically cleaned up between tests
- Database schema is managed by **Hibernate** in test profile
- Tests run with **JUnit 5** and **AssertJ** for assertions

#### Test Profiles

- `test`: Default profile for unit tests (in-memory H2 database)
- `itest`: Integration test profile (PostgreSQL Testcontainer)

To run with a specific profile:
```bash
./mvnw test -Pitest
```

6. **Generate JaCoCo coverage report**
   ```bash
   ./mvnw jacoco:report
   # Open target/site/jacoco/index.html in browser
   ```
   ```

## 📚 API Documentation

### Authentication

1. **Get Access Token**
   ```http
   POST /auth/realms/mcp/protocol/openid-connect/token
   Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
   
   client_id=mcp-client
   &username=user
   &password=password
   &grant_type=password
   &client_secret=your-client-secret
   ```

2. **Using the Access Token**
   ```http
   GET /api/messages
   Authorization: Bearer <access_token>
   ```

### Available Endpoints

#### Messages

- `GET /api/messages` - Get all messages (paginated)
- `GET /api/messages/{id}` - Get message by ID
- `POST /api/messages` - Create a new message
- `PUT /api/messages/{id}` - Update a message
- `DELETE /api/messages/{id}` - Delete a message
- `GET /api/messages/search?query={query}` - Search messages

#### WebSocket Endpoints

- `/ws` - WebSocket endpoint
- `/topic/messages` - Subscribe to message updates
- `/queue/private` - Private message queue
- `/app/chat` - Send a message

### Example Requests

**Create a Message**
```http
POST /api/messages
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer <access_token>

{
  "content": "Hello, World!",
  "recipient": "user2"
}
```

**Subscribe to Messages**
```javascript
const socket = new SockJS('/ws');
const stompClient = Stomp.over(socket);

stompClient.connect({}, function(frame) {
    console.log('Connected: ' + frame);
    
    // Subscribe to public messages
    stompClient.subscribe('/topic/messages', function(message) {
        console.log('New message: ' + message.body);
    });
    
    // Subscribe to private messages
    stompClient.subscribe('/user/queue/private', function(message) {
        console.log('Private message: ' + message.body);
    });
});
```

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file in the project root with the following variables:

```env
# Application
SERVER_PORT=8080
SERVER_SERVLET_CONTEXT_PATH=/api

# Database
SPRING_DATASOURCE_URL=jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/mcp_db
SPRING_DATASOURCE_USERNAME=postgres
SPRING_DATASOURCE_PASSWORD=postgres

# JPA/Hibernate
SPRING_JPA_HIBERNATE_DDL_AUTO=update
SPRING_JPA_SHOW_SQL=true

# OAuth2 Resource Server
SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_RESOURCESERVER_JWT_ISSUER_URI=http://localhost:8081/realms/mcp
SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_RESOURCESERVER_JWT_JWK_SET_URI=http://localhost:8081/realms/mcp/protocol/openid-connect/certs

# Logging
LOGGING_LEVEL_ORG_SPRINGFRAMEWORK_WEB=INFO
LOGGING_LEVEL_COM_CODEPIPELINE=DEBUG

# Actuator
MANAGEMENT_ENDPOINTS_WEB_EXPOSURE_INCLUDE=health,info,metrics
MANAGEMENT_ENDPOINT_HEALTH_SHOW_DETAILS=always
```

## 🚀 Deployment

### Docker Deployment

1. **Build the application**
   ```bash
   ./mvnw clean package -DskipTests
   docker build -t codepipeline-mcp .
   ```

2. **Run with Docker Compose**
   ```bash
   # For development
   docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml up -d
   
   # For production
   docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d
   ```

### Kubernetes Deployment

1. **Create Kubernetes secrets**
   ```bash
   kubectl create secret generic db-secret \
     --from-literal=username=postgres \
     --from-literal=password=postgres
   ```

2. **Deploy the application**
   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f k8s/
   ```

## 🛡️ Security

### Authentication Flow

1. Client requests an access token from Keycloak
2. Keycloak issues a JWT token
3. Client includes the token in the `Authorization` header
4. Resource server validates the token and checks scopes/roles

### Security Headers

The application includes the following security headers by default:
- Content Security Policy (CSP)
- X-Content-Type-Options
- X-Frame-Options
- X-XSS-Protection
- Strict-Transport-Security (HSTS)

## 📊 Monitoring

### Actuator Endpoints

| Endpoint | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `/actuator/health` | Application health information |
| `/actuator/info` | Application information |
| `/actuator/metrics` | Application metrics |
| `/actuator/prometheus` | Prometheus metrics |

### Logging

Logs are written to `logs/application.log` and can be configured in `logback-spring.xml`.

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- [Spring Boot](https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot)
- [Spring Security](https://spring.io/projects/spring-security)
- [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
- [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/)
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/)
- [WebSocket](https://spring.io/guides/gs/messaging-stomp-websocket/)

## 🏗️ Project Structure

```
.
├── src/
│   ├── main/
│   │   ├── java/com/codepipeline/mcp/
│   │   │   ├── config/          # Configuration classes
│   │   │   ├── controller/      # REST controllers
│   │   │   ├── dto/            # Data Transfer Objects
│   │   │   ├── exception/      # Exception handling
│   │   │   ├── model/          # JPA entities
│   │   │   ├── repository/     # Spring Data repositories
│   │   │   ├── security/       # Security configurations
│   │   │   ├── service/        # Business logic
│   │   │   └── websocket/      # WebSocket configurations
│   │   └── resources/
│   │       ├── application.yml       # Main configuration
│   │       ├── application-dev.yml   # Development profile
│   │       └── application-prod.yml  # Production profile
│   └── test/                    # Test classes
├── .github/                    # GitHub workflow files
├── docker/                     # Docker configuration files
├── k8s/                        # Kubernetes manifests
├── keycloak/                   # Keycloak configuration
├── .gitignore
├── docker-compose.yml
├── Dockerfile
├── mvnw
├── pom.xml
└── README.md
```

### Key Components

- **`config/`**: Spring configuration classes
  - `SecurityConfig.java`: Security configuration
  - `WebSocketConfig.java`: WebSocket configuration
  - `OpenAPIConfig.java`: OpenAPI/Swagger configuration

- **`controller/`**: REST controllers
  - `MessageController.java`: Message REST endpoints
  - `WebSocketController.java`: WebSocket message handling

- **`model/`**: JPA entities
  - `Message.java`: Message entity with JPA annotations

- **`service/`**: Business logic
  - `MessageService.java`: Message business logic

- **`security/`**: Security configurations
  - `JwtRoleConverter.java`: JWT role conversion
  - `SecurityUtils.java`: Security utilities

- **`websocket/`**: WebSocket components
  - `WebSocketEventListener.java`: WebSocket event handling
  - `WebSocketMessageBrokerConfig.java`: WebSocket broker configuration

## API Documentation

API documentation is available at runtime using Swagger UI:
- Swagger UI: http://localhost:8080/api/swagger-ui.html
- OpenAPI JSON: http://localhost:8080/api/v3/api-docs

## Testing

Run unit tests:
```bash
./mvnw test
```

Run integration tests (requires Docker):
```bash
./mvnw verify -Pintegration-test
```

## Building for Production

Build the application:
```bash
./mvnw clean package -DskipTests
```

## Docker

Build Docker image:
```bash
docker build -t codepipeline-mcp .
```

Run with Docker Compose:
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

## Deployment

### Kubernetes

Deploy to Kubernetes:
```bash
kubectl apply -f k8s/
```

### Cloud Platforms

The application can be deployed to any cloud platform that supports Docker containers:
- AWS ECS/EKS
- Google Cloud Run/GKE
- Azure Container Apps/AKS
- Heroku

## Security

- OAuth2 with JWT tokens
- Role-based access control (RBAC)
- CSRF protection
- CORS configuration
- Secure headers
- Input validation

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- [Spring Boot](https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot)
- [Spring Security](https://spring.io/projects/spring-security)
- [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
- [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/)
 CodePipeline-MCP-JavaSpring-OAuth2

Commit message:

docs: update MessageService JavaDoc and README with recent changes

README.md, after:

# CodePipeline MCP Java Spring OAuth2

A professional Java Spring Boot microservice with OAuth2 authentication and WebSocket real-time capabilities following MCP (Model Context Protocol) design principles.

[![Java CI](https://github.com/markbsigler/CodePipeline-MCP-JavaSpring-OAuth2/actions/workflows/maven.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/markbsigler/CodePipeline-MCP-JavaSpring-OAuth2/actions/workflows/maven.yml)
[![CodeQL](https://github.com/markbsigler/CodePipeline-MCP-JavaSpring-OAuth2/actions/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/markbsigler/CodePipeline-MCP-JavaSpring-OAuth2/actions/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

## 🚀 Recent Updates

- **Enhanced Message Service**
  - Added input validation for message creation (null/empty checks for content and sender)
  - Improved error messages for validation failures
  - Fixed concurrency issues in message deletion
  - Added comprehensive test coverage for all service methods
  - Improved test reliability and isolation
  - Added proper cleanup in test cases
  - Fixed version handling in update operations

- Infrastructure & Testing
  - Upgraded to **Testcontainers 1.19.7** for better Java 17 compatibility
  - Improved test reliability with **@DataJpaTest** and proper transaction management
  - Enhanced test isolation with **Testcontainers PostgreSQL**
  - Added comprehensive integration tests for the Message repository
  - Improved test performance with container reuse
  - Added detailed logging for test execution

## 🏗️ System Architecture

### High-Level Architecture

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Client] -->|HTTPS| B[API Gateway / Load Balancer]
    B --> C[Spring Boot Application]
    C --> D[PostgreSQL]
    C --> E[Keycloak]
    C --> F[Redis Cache]
    
    G[WebSocket Client] -->|WSS| C
    C -->|WebSocket Events| G
    
    H[Monitoring] -->|Metrics| C
    C -->|Logs| I[ELK Stack]
```

### Authentication Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant C as Client
    participant A as Application
    participant K as Keycloak
    
    C->>K: 1. Request Access Token (Client Credentials/Password)
    K-->>C: 2. JWT Token
    C->>A: 3. API Request with JWT
    A->>K: 4. Validate Token
    K-->>A: 5. Token Info
    A-->>C: 6. Response
```

### WebSocket Message Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant C as WebSocket Client
    participant S as Spring App
    participant B as Message Broker
    
    C->>S: 1. Connect (STOMP)
    S-->>C: 2. CONNECTED
    C->>S: 3. SUBSCRIBE /topic/messages
    C->>S: 4. SEND /app/chat
    S->>B: 5. Process Message
    B-->>S: 6. Broadcast
    S-->>C: 7. MESSAGE (to all subscribers)
```

## 🚀 Features

### Core Features

- **Spring Boot 3.2** with Java 17
  - Modern Java features and performance improvements
  - Auto-configuration and standalone deployment

- **Security**
  - **OAuth2 Resource Server** with JWT validation
  - **Keycloak** integration for identity management
  - **Role-based access control** (RBAC)
  - **CSRF protection**
  - **CORS** configuration

- **Real-time Communication**
  - **WebSocket** support with STOMP protocol
  - **Message broadcasting** and direct messaging
  - **User presence** tracking
  - **Event-driven** architecture

- **Data Layer**
  - **PostgreSQL** with **Spring Data JPA**
  - **Flyway** for database migrations
  - **QueryDSL** for type-safe queries
  - **Auditing** (createdAt, updatedAt, etc.)

- **API**
  - **RESTful** endpoints
  - **OpenAPI 3.0** documentation with **Swagger UI**
  - **HATEOAS** for discoverable APIs
  - **Pagination** and **filtering**
  - **Validation** and **error handling**

- **DevOps**
  - **Docker** and **Docker Compose** support
  - **Maven** build system
  - **Git** version control
  - **CI/CD** ready

- **Monitoring**
  - **Spring Boot Actuator**
  - **Health checks**
  - **Metrics** with Prometheus
  - **Distributed tracing**

- **Testing**
  - **JUnit 5**
  - **TestContainers** for integration testing
  - **MockMVC** for controller testing
  - **Test coverage** reports

## 🛠️ Prerequisites

- **Java Development Kit (JDK) 17** or later
  - [Download Eclipse Temurin JDK 17](https://adoptium.net/)
  - Verify: `java -version`
  - Required for Java 17 language features and modules

- **Maven 3.9+** or **Gradle 8+**
  - [Install Maven](https://maven.apache.org/install.html)
  - Verify: `mvn -v`

- **Docker and Docker Compose**
  - [Install Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)
  - Verify: `docker --version` and `docker-compose --version`

- **Database**
  - PostgreSQL 14+ (included in Docker Compose)
  - Or install [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) locally

- **IDE** (Recommended)
  - [IntelliJ IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/)
  - [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) with Java extensions
  - [Eclipse](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/)

- **API Testing Tools**
  - [Postman](https://www.postman.com/)
  - [cURL](https://curl.se/)
  - [httpie](https://httpie.io/)

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Local Development Setup

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/markbsigler/CodePipeline-MCP-JavaSpring-OAuth2.git
   cd CodePipeline-MCP-JavaSpring-OAuth2
   ```
   
   Or using SSH:
   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:markbsigler/CodePipeline-MCP-JavaSpring-OAuth2.git
   cd CodePipeline-MCP-JavaSpring-OAuth2
   ```

2. **Start the infrastructure**
   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```
   This will start:
   - PostgreSQL database
   - Keycloak OAuth2 server
   - PgAdmin (optional, for database management)

3. **Configure Keycloak**
   - Access Keycloak Admin Console: http://localhost:8081/
   - Login with `admin/admin`
   - Import the realm configuration from `keycloak/realm-export.json`

4. **Run the application**
   ```bash
   # Using Maven wrapper
   ./mvnw spring-boot:run -Dspring-boot.run.profiles=dev
   
   # Or build and run the JAR
   ./mvnw clean package
   java -jar target/codepipeline-mcp-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
   ```

5. **Access the application**
   - **API Base URL**: http://localhost:8080/api
   - **Swagger UI**: http://localhost:8080/api/swagger-ui.html
   - **H2 Console**: http://localhost:8080/api/h2-console
     - JDBC URL: `jdbc:h2:mem:testdb`
     - Username: `sa`
     - Password: (leave empty)

6. **Test Users**
   - **Admin User**
     - Username: `admin`
     - Password: `admin`
     - Roles: `ROLE_ADMIN`, `ROLE_USER`
   - **Regular User**
     - Username: `user`
     - Password: `password`
     - Roles: `ROLE_USER`

### 🧪 Testing the Application

#### Running Tests

1. **Run all tests**
   ```bash
   ./mvnw clean test
   ```

2. **Run integration tests with Testcontainers**
   ```bash
   # Make sure Docker is running
   docker --version
   
   # Run integration tests
   ./mvnw test -Dtest=*IT
   ```

3. **Run a specific test class**
   ```bash
   ./mvnw test -Dtest=MessageRepositoryIT
   ```

4. **Run a specific test method**
   ```bash
   ./mvnw test -Dtest=MessageRepositoryIT#shouldSaveMessage
   ```

5. **Generate test coverage report**
   ```bash
   ./mvnw clean verify
   # Report will be available at: target/site/jacoco/index.html
   ```

#### Test Configuration

- Tests use **Testcontainers** with **PostgreSQL 14**
- Test data is automatically cleaned up between tests
- Database schema is managed by **Hibernate** in test profile
- Tests run with **JUnit 5** and **AssertJ** for assertions

#### Test Profiles

- `test`: Default profile for unit tests (in-memory H2 database)
- `itest`: Integration test profile (PostgreSQL Testcontainer)

To run with a specific profile:
```bash
./mvnw test -Pitest
```

6. **Generate JaCoCo coverage report**
   ```bash
   ./mvnw jacoco:report
   # Open target/site/jacoco/index.html in browser
   ```
   ```

## 📚 API Documentation

### Authentication

1. **Get Access Token**
   ```http
   POST /auth/realms/mcp/protocol/openid-connect/token
   Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
   
   client_id=mcp-client
   &username=user
   &password=password
   &grant_type=password
   &client_secret=your-client-secret
   ```

2. **Using the Access Token**
   ```http
   GET /api/messages
   Authorization: Bearer <access_token>
   ```

### Available Endpoints

#### Messages

- `GET /api/messages` - Get all messages (paginated)
- `GET /api/messages/{id}` - Get message by ID
- `POST /api/messages` - Create a new message
- `PUT /api/messages/{id}` - Update a message
- `DELETE /api/messages/{id}` - Delete a message
- `GET /api/messages/search?query={query}` - Search messages

#### WebSocket Endpoints

- `/ws` - WebSocket endpoint
- `/topic/messages` - Subscribe to message updates
- `/queue/private` - Private message queue
- `/app/chat` - Send a message

### Example Requests

**Create a Message**
```http
POST /api/messages
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer <access_token>

{
  "content": "Hello, World!",
  "recipient": "user2"
}
```

**Subscribe to Messages**
```javascript
const socket = new SockJS('/ws');
const stompClient = Stomp.over(socket);

stompClient.connect({}, function(frame) {
    console.log('Connected: ' + frame);
    
    // Subscribe to public messages
    stompClient.subscribe('/topic/messages', function(message) {
        console.log('New message: ' + message.body);
    });
    
    // Subscribe to private messages
    stompClient.subscribe('/user/queue/private', function(message) {
        console.log('Private message: ' + message.body);
    });
});
```

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file in the project root with the following variables:

```env
# Application
SERVER_PORT=8080
SERVER_SERVLET_CONTEXT_PATH=/api

# Database
SPRING_DATASOURCE_URL=jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/mcp_db
SPRING_DATASOURCE_USERNAME=postgres
SPRING_DATASOURCE_PASSWORD=postgres

# JPA/Hibernate
SPRING_JPA_HIBERNATE_DDL_AUTO=update
SPRING_JPA_SHOW_SQL=true

# OAuth2 Resource Server
SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_RESOURCESERVER_JWT_ISSUER_URI=http://localhost:8081/realms/mcp
SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_RESOURCESERVER_JWT_JWK_SET_URI=http://localhost:8081/realms/mcp/protocol/openid-connect/certs

# Logging
LOGGING_LEVEL_ORG_SPRINGFRAMEWORK_WEB=INFO
LOGGING_LEVEL_COM_CODEPIPELINE=DEBUG

# Actuator
MANAGEMENT_ENDPOINTS_WEB_EXPOSURE_INCLUDE=health,info,metrics
MANAGEMENT_ENDPOINT_HEALTH_SHOW_DETAILS=always
```

## 🚀 Deployment

### Docker Deployment

1. **Build the application**
   ```bash
   ./mvnw clean package -DskipTests
   docker build -t codepipeline-mcp .
   ```

2. **Run with Docker Compose**
   ```bash
   # For development
   docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml up -d
   
   # For production
   docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d
   ```

### Kubernetes Deployment

1. **Create Kubernetes secrets**
   ```bash
   kubectl create secret generic db-secret \
     --from-literal=username=postgres \
     --from-literal=password=postgres
   ```

2. **Deploy the application**
   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f k8s/
   ```

## 🛡️ Security

### Authentication Flow

1. Client requests an access token from Keycloak
2. Keycloak issues a JWT token
3. Client includes the token in the `Authorization` header
4. Resource server validates the token and checks scopes/roles

### Security Headers

The application includes the following security headers by default:
- Content Security Policy (CSP)
- X-Content-Type-Options
- X-Frame-Options
- X-XSS-Protection
- Strict-Transport-Security (HSTS)

## 📊 Monitoring

### Actuator Endpoints

| Endpoint | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `/actuator/health` | Application health information |
| `/actuator/info` | Application information |
| `/actuator/metrics` | Application metrics |
| `/actuator/prometheus` | Prometheus metrics |

### Logging

Logs are written to `logs/application.log` and can be configured in `logback-spring.xml`.

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- [Spring Boot](https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot)
- [Spring Security](https://spring.io/projects/spring-security)
- [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
- [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/)
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/)
- [WebSocket](https://spring.io/guides/gs/messaging-stomp-websocket/)

## 🏗️ Project Structure

```
.
├── src/
│   ├── main/
│   │   ├── java/com/codepipeline/mcp/
│   │   │   ├── config/          # Configuration classes
│   │   │   ├── controller/      # REST controllers
│   │   │   ├── dto/            # Data Transfer Objects
│   │   │   ├── exception/      # Exception handling
│   │   │   ├── model/          # JPA entities
│   │   │   ├── repository/     # Spring Data repositories
│   │   │   ├── security/       # Security configurations
│   │   │   ├── service/        # Business logic
│   │   │   └── websocket/      # WebSocket configurations
│   │   └── resources/
│   │       ├── application.yml       # Main configuration
│   │       ├── application-dev.yml   # Development profile
│   │       └── application-prod.yml  # Production profile
│   └── test/                    # Test classes
├── .github/                    # GitHub workflow files
├── docker/                     # Docker configuration files
├── k8s/                        # Kubernetes manifests
├── keycloak/                   # Keycloak configuration
├── .gitignore
├── docker-compose.yml
├── Dockerfile
├── mvnw
├── pom.xml
└── README.md
```

### Key Components

- **`config/`**: Spring configuration classes
  - `SecurityConfig.java`: Security configuration
  - `WebSocketConfig.java`: WebSocket configuration
  - `OpenAPIConfig.java`: OpenAPI/Swagger configuration

- **`controller/`**: REST controllers
  - `MessageController.java`: Message REST endpoints
  - `WebSocketController.java`: WebSocket message handling

- **`model/`**: JPA entities
  - `Message.java`: Message entity with JPA annotations

- **`service/`**: Business logic
  - `MessageService.java`: Message business logic

- **`security/`**: Security configurations
  - `JwtRoleConverter.java`: JWT role conversion
  - `SecurityUtils.java`: Security utilities

- **`websocket/`**: WebSocket components
  - `WebSocketEventListener.java`: WebSocket event handling
  - `WebSocketMessageBrokerConfig.java`: WebSocket broker configuration

## API Documentation

API documentation is available at runtime using Swagger UI:
- Swagger UI: http://localhost:8080/api/swagger-ui.html
- OpenAPI JSON: http://localhost:8080/api/v3/api-docs

## Testing

Run unit tests:
```bash
./mvnw test
```

Run integration tests (requires Docker):
```bash
./mvnw verify -Pintegration-test
```

## Building for Production

Build the application:
```bash
./mvnw clean package -DskipTests
```

## Docker

Build Docker image:
```bash
docker build -t codepipeline-mcp .
```

Run with Docker Compose:
```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

## Deployment

### Kubernetes

Deploy to Kubernetes:
```bash
kubectl apply -f k8s/
```

### Cloud Platforms

The application can be deployed to any cloud platform that supports Docker containers:
- AWS ECS/EKS
- Google Cloud Run/GKE
- Azure Container Apps/AKS
- Heroku

## Security

- OAuth2 with JWT tokens
- Role-based access control (RBAC)
- CSRF protection
- CORS configuration
- Secure headers
- Input validation

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- [Spring Boot](https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot)
- [Spring Security](https://spring.io/projects/spring-security)
- [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
- [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/)
 CodePipeline-MCP-JavaSpring-OAuth2
